Welcome to party functions functions in Python UCD death or death keyword and you're defining a function.
We'll also talk a bit more about some useful methods for various Python objects which will behave basically
as functions you can call off the object.
Let's get started by copying over to our editor.
All right.
So remember that a function formally is a useful device to group together a set of statements so that
it can be run more than once and it can also let us specify parameters that can serve as inputs to the
function.
But on a more fundamental level they basically allow us to not have to repeatedly write the same code
over and over and over again.
So we're going to do is start with the DTMF keyboard and you can actually just enter here the F and
then you can have the NAMEER function and Python uses camel case.
So are seized me snake case for function names.
Unlike javascript which uses camel case.
So if you want your function you say my underscore F-you and C or whatever you want your function name
to be.
But with the word separated out with an underscore.
And then if you want a parameter you can have something that looks like this pram one if you want any
default value for it.
You can say equals 2 and then input some default value.
Then you can put in a colon here and you see now we have an indented block and anything inside of this
belongs to the function it belongs to the scope of that function.
And then I can say something like Prince my first Python function will save this.
Note that if I run the scripts we shouldn't expect anything to happen which nothing does happen because
I've only defined the function if I actually want to call it later on in my code.
I say my phunk close parentheses and we have my first Python function.
Great.
If I want to use the parameter there I could have also said something like the format harams one save
it and then let's include that over here.
Save that.
Run this.
And we see.
Whoops forgot to actually call it my phunk rerun.
And here it says my first Python function and then default whatever the default value for that parameter
was.
If we want our function to have a docstring And that's just the documentation string you type a set
of three quotes.
Usually they're double quotes but it can work for single quotes as well.
And then another set and then anything inside here.
This is the docstring.
So you probably noticed as we were typing in methods and functions if we ever saw the help here LCN
for instance which was the length function you get a little output here that says it returns a number
of items of sequence or a collection.
Now we might be wondering how to actually get that information.
How do I know what this function does.
Well that is the docstring.
So now our own function going to save this and then let's say my underscore phunk you should notice.
Now this is the docstring display here in Python.
Basically we'll go over the function check if there's a docstring immediately below as a multi-line
comment and you can do a multi-line comment with these sets of three quotes meaning anything inside
these sets of three quotes is part of the comments.
Now again if I check my func here I see this is docstring and then these various lines that I wrote.
So keep that in mind.
It's always good to document your functions especially if you're going to be using them a lot or especially
if someone else is going to be reading your code just the right thing to do.
Now let's quickly go over the difference between printing something in the function and the return keyword
of a function.
So let's make a quick example.
A classic helo function.
And then we'll say Prince.
And it just prints hello.
We save that if we want to call it.
Whoops forgot to call it later on in our code.
All you have to do is make sure you're lined up outside of the scope of the function call.
Hello will say this.
Run this code and here we have hello.
So again indentation is very important.
Make sure you didn't accidentally do something like this while you're coding now.
Let's the first example is gone to example too which will instead of just printing the hello it's going
to return Hello.
So we'll get rid of these princes and just say return the string Hello.
So enough I call hello and I run this I don't get anything out.
And that's because it was just returning Hello wasn't actually printing it so I can say something like
result is equal to hello being called.
And then I can print out that result
we'll save this run the code and oh I see it.
Hello is the output.
And this is the way you're going to see most functions work.
It will actually return an object for you to save as a variable and use later on now quick Now again
if you're coming to Python from a different language that is not dynamic programming.
You may have to be careful when you're defining a function as far as what inputs you expect.
So let's imagine I create a function that adds two numbers together and hopefully this example looks
a little familiar to you and it takes in someone numb to colon and then it returns number plus them
to what you probably expect the user to do is something like this.
Results is equal to add.
And then let's say two and three.
And then if I print out my results save it we run this and I get five but Python will work for a lot
of things.
So if I actually input two strings here or let's say even worse for some reason my inputs were strings
instead of being numbers we can save that run this and it outputs 23 instead of 5.
So it's kind of a more realistic error you might get in your code.
Let's say you asked for a form input with Django and it returned it back as a string and you were expecting
a number.
This kind of error could easily occur.
So you you may want to do is actually check for types and you can check for a Python type using the
type keyword.
So if you say something like Prince type of results I will save this.
Let's run it.
I get it's class as TR which means it's part of the string class and and if I make these back into integers
save this and run this again I get class I.A..
So sometimes you'll probably want to have a check that says something like this.
Type of name one is equal to type of name two is equal to type of 10 right.
And then we'll have the colon here
return number 1 plus them to and Elisei else return.
Sorry I need integers.
So now let's see how this works.
If I save this and run just prints results save that career my council run Python notes I get five out.
Now if I type in two and three save that run this says Sorry I need integers.
Again this is a very simple way to test if type inputs are correct.
We'll discuss much more formal methods such as checking for actual exceptions and errors and doing unit
testing later on the course right now.
Just keep this in mind that you may get different types than you expected and that Python can still
deal with them now let's briefly discuss what is known as a land expression and often you will always
need a full blown function like we've defined here.
You may just want to use a function just one time which means you didn't really need to define it more
than the one time you used it.
And in some of these cases it makes more sense to use what is known as a lambda expression and it looks
like this lambda expression.
So to actually get the full idea of one we would use a land expression we need to use or introduce a
function that accepts other functions as input parameters.
So in this case we'll introduce the filter function.
So let's start by introducing how the filter function works what it would look like a normal function
as accepted as the input.
And then what it would look like with lambda except that as the input.
So I will create my list and set it equal to 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 and then I'm going to create a function
called even bool.
Now let's do it in camel.
Or a snake casing.
It accepts a number and then it says Return numb maade to equal to zero.
So what does that actually mean.
It means it's going to return true if the number is even or false if the number is odd.
And then let's show you how you can use the filter function the filter function takes in two arguments
and we can see him down here.
It takes in a function and then a sequence.
And what it does it returns those items of sequence for which the function item is true if the function
has none.
And it turns the items that are true so let's try this I'm going to first pass on my function which
was even bool and then I'm going to pass and my sequence which is my list and let's do save this as
a result called evens and then print out evens cast it as a list.
We will save this for the council and then run Python that notes that pi.
And then here I have 2 4 6 8.
So I have now all the even numbers from this list and this is again just filtering out wherever even
bool return true on my list.
And then we have to cast it as a list because if we did it we would otherwise get a little generator
object so I save that and run this again.
I get this thing it says filter object and that's because like I mentioned for range this is actually
a generator and it will actually create the list unless you specifically ask it to.
All right.
So now I'll show you how we can do that with a land expression.
So you land the expression is basically a breakdown of this function or of any function really.
So let's break down this function into a land expression and land the expression is pretty much always
on one line.
So first thing you need to do is take care of the input.
So a land expression has no name.
Which is why it's also sometimes called an anonymous function.
So I place all that with just land numb.
So again I replace the f the name of the function and any input such as lambda and then the input itself
and then we say Colan we get rid of this return key word.
And now we have a land expression.
This is the land expression version of the even bhool function.
We just made.
So I will cut that out and then paste it here.
And this is a typical use case for lambda we don't actually want to define an entire function.
If we were only going to use it once inside of another function.
Now let's actually run this.
And we see that it works the same way.
And if we cast this as a list before we run this out in the print CCR run it again.
You can see here now you have 2 4 6 8 right.
So that is all working the same as it did before.
So those Arlanda expressions will see them later on the course so if you don't fully understand them
yet don't worry we'll get plenty of more practice with them.
Finally I want to show you just some useful methods that you may not be familiar with for all these
various basic data types so we've learned about.
So first string some nice methods that we've already discussed are lower which lower cases everything
upper which upper cases everything and then split which splits up on whatever you want to be a list.
So let me show you a more realistic example of where you may encounter that split.
Let's say we're trying to make a Twitter clone.
So I say tweet and I say Go sports hash tag sports and I'm only looking for things that are on the hash
tag if I know there's only one hashtag somewhere in the actual tweet that I can say split on hashtag
and later on we'll have a entire section on regular expressions which are going to allow us to do much
better searching through text than what I'm showing here.
But let's do that well say as the split and I'm going to say this as a result and let's run Python.
Up high and chips.
This should be Esti split should be split.
Save it now run it again.
And we don't get anything back because I didn't print out the result.
Save it.
Run it and here it says Go sports comma sports.
So I know sports here is the actual hash tag.
So if I want to just that was under the hash tag then I could say one there and I get out sports and
that's the way you would probably more realistically use the Split method off of a string.
Then I want to quickly mention the in operator.
It's not a method it's just something that's really useful if you ever want to know if something is
in a sequence.
For example if I want to know is X in the list.
One two three.
All you do is use the keyword in to solve that and this or turn a boolean.
So I can print out the result of this entire thing.
Run the code and it says false x is not in 1 to 3.
But now if I add X to this save it run it again I get back.
True.
OK.
There are a lot more examples of functions and various other things in the actual lecture notes so check
out Part 8 underscore functions up PI for fully commented code with a lot more examples if you feel
like you need more.
Thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture.